---
layout: default
title: Mad Skills
categories:
- bio
- skills
---

## Design

**UI and Interaction** designs are the focus of my design capabilities. I enjoy making sleek layouts, buttons, and other web components in Sketch.app rather than using pre-made kits.

I prefer to **prototype** my interactions in the browser with my custom components or a framework like Foundation or Ratchet, rather than create a spec sheet explaining the interactions.

I have also dabbled with **graphic design** in Sketch, including my personal logo, various avatars, icons, and product mockups.

## Development

I started learning web design from the basics of **HTML** and continue to use an unabstracted version of the markup language with relative ease, thanks to the awesome Emmet plugin for my preferred text editors.

I have been known to use **Markdown** from time to time, mostly when writing the occasional blog post or README.

After mastering the basics of **CSS** and looking for more power in the language, I discovered **Sass** was the perfect solution. I have sampled expanding Sass functionality with **Compass** but prefer the lighter library of **Bourbon** for that role.

Like many aspiring front-end developers, I learned the basic syntax and logic functionality of **JavaScript** and immediately turned to **JQuery** when advancing to DOM manipulation, etc. I have since disovered a gap in my front-end education when trying to do anything without JQuery, and now I focus my continued dev learning towards **vanilla JS** to overcome my handicap.

## Business

Like many students of the 21st Century, I am proficient in using **Microsoft Office** & **Apple iWork** applications for day to day work.

I am also trained and tested in **Servant & Transformational Leadership** through my involvement a two-year collegiate leadership program and as an officer for various organizations.
